In the last video we've made change our route
behavior in the backend to load only a single page
for any request comes in.
Now in this video we're going to install
vue router and then define some routes
Okay let's install the vue router by saying
npm install vue router capital d. Alright
while that processing let's create some vue components
now you could create the component inside the components directory like we did before but this component
will represent an entire page.
So I think it will be better to place this
component into separate directory.
Actually
here we already have that directory and
we also have question page dot vue inside.
So let's put our new components inside here.
Let's create a new file
let's call it questions page dot vue.
So questions in plural this file will be used
to display all the questions in our application.
Let's create another file
this file is going to display all the questions
and answers of the current users logged in.
So here let's call it my posts page
dot vue. All right in this file for now let's add
a simple markup let's add a template tag
inside here
let's add a message in a heading one
let's copy everything here.
Go to questions page then paste it in here
and change this to questions page. All right now
that we have three components inside this pages
directory. We can think of these files like
view files in our laravel backend application.
So in order to show them we need to provided some
routes in our frontend. So to do that here in js folder
let's create a new folder
here I'm going to call it router. Then inside this
directory let's get a brand new file let's call it index
dot js
in here
let's firstly import the vue
then we also need to import the vue route
this file is basically going to be install and instantiate
the vue router and for the routes definition
we'll place them in separate file.
So here let's import that file
this file is currently doesn't exist and will create that file shortly.
All right
the vue router  basically is a plug in.
So we need to integrate to vue by saying vue use vue router.
Next let's instantiate the vue router by saying new
vue router. We can assign this into a variable let's
say router
then here we can specify at least two options
for the vue router instance. The first one is mode
the default mode is hash mode which is use the URL hash
so you will have something like this
or like this
so having this route will not need the page reload
when the URL changes but I think this not look
so good. To use normal URL we can set the mode to history
next we need to define some routes and we'll do that in the routes file.
So here we can say routes routes
or we can simply say just routes
now to make this vue router actually work we need
to  pass the vue router instance in the option of
the vue instance.
So here we can export the router instance
by saying export default router
Alright now let's create in this router directory a new file
we'll call it routes routes dot js and we'll define the actual routes here.
Okay here
Firstly let's import every single component inside
pages directory. So import questions page
from here we are inside routes directory
So we need to go up one level
Then pages then questions
page.
let's duplicate this line 2 times then here
let's select the component name by
hitting the common D or control D
Then let's replace to question page let's continue by select
this last line and then replace with my posts page.
All right now we have three components loaded.
The next thing that we need to do is map every
single component to the respective route
we can do that in an array.
So const routes equals array then inside this array we
can map the route path to the component represented
in object. So here we'll need path and this path is
going to be root path or forward slash then we'll
need to tell which component that will map to this route.
Here will say component equals questions
page.
Now we also need to define the name for this route.
You can think of the name here like name route
when you're working with laravel route
So here
name and this route is going to be home. Okay
so now we have a route definition to map
the root route to the questions page.
So whenever we visit the route route this component will be returned.
Now let's duplicate this route definition
add comma here here. The path is gonna be questions
The component that will be mapped is
gonna be the same with the root path
Questions page. You could possibly map the root path
to the other component if you want but in my case
I'll have two routes which return the same component. Okay
here we'll call this route as questions in plural
let's duplicate
once again
change the path to let's say my posts
we'll map this path to my posts
page and we'll call it
my posts. Let's duplicate the route definition one more time.
The path is gonna be questions
forward slash colon slug.
So this is something called dynamic route matching.
Probably it's similar with route parameter
in a laravel so this basically similar with
slug in level.
Alright
we are map the path to question page
singular and for the name let's call it
questions dot show.
OK now we have our routes defined the last thing that
we need to do here is to export the routes because
remember we'll call this file in our router index
export default routes
OK
Now to make the vue router actually work we need
to pass in its instance in our main JavaScript file
so let's open the app dot js in resources
js
in here let's
Important the router by saying import router from
router
please note that we don't need to specify the index
dot js in here and that's probably the benefit of
following the convention.
So just in case you name it with other name
then you would need to specify the full name.
All right
here in vue configuration we can pass in the router instance.
Now
the last thing that we need to do is to actually show the matches component in our view.
So let's jump into spa.blade.php
and here we can leverage the router vue component
that will render the match component for the given
path.  Now let's save all changes
I'll reopen my terminal okay here the vue router
installed and now I'll run npm run watch
all right head back to browser.
Let's visit questions
There we go
We get questions page show up if we go to Home page
we'll get the same thing.
Now let's ciair my posts.
Sure enough we'll get the current users post page.
Now if we go to
questions test
here we will get nothing.
Let me open browser console.
Here
I get error.
Probably we need to make some tweak in our question
page component and we'll fix that later on.
But overall we have our routes displaying
the components properly.